All right, let's talk about writing styles
in our react project.
So there's all kinds
of different ways that you can write CSS in a reacting.
You could literally
just add classes to elements
and then pop a CSS file in there
and call it a day.
You can do the same thing with SAS.
You could use utility framework.
One way that I like
to write all my CSS is via scoped CSS.
And the package that we're gonna be using today
is stout components.
But the ideas behind stout components
they are relevant in almost all
of the react base
and even angular and whatnot based scope CSS.
So all of these ideas will translate.
So the idea behind style components
or CSS in JS as we call it
is that you define all of your CSS
in components as well.
And those things have a number of benefits.
First, we're gonna be able to scope our CSS really easily.
And I'll show you what I mean about that in just a second.
Second, you can use JavaScript values inside of CSS.
So if you have a variable,
that's part of your state
or any part of your react application
you can actually use that variable inside
of your your react component.
So rather than get too much into it,
let's just start writing some,
and we'll explain along the way.
So open up your header.JS
And I think the first thing that we should do
is we wanna apply some styles to this sick fits logo.
So I'm gonna go to the sick fits here
and actually that should be wrapped in h1.
So wrap it in an h1 tag
and then we pop it there.
So let's see...
There we go sick fits right there.
If I wanted to apply styles to this,
you might think,
okay, I'll give it a class
of like header or a class of like logo.
And then you'll go into some other part
of your application and define.logo
But instead of applying classes
to things and going elsewhere,
what we're gonna do is we're gonna create
an h1 component with the styles already attached to it.
And then that will immediately
scope all of the styles to that h1 tag
and make sure that like
if I write like a link inside of this logo component
and it's not gonna apply to any other links on the page
or if I say like,
I have a common class,
like, how many times have you given something
a class of new or special or something like that.
And then accidentally you use that class
somewhere else on the website
and that broke it then.
So the idea here is that
we're gonna go up here
and we're to make a variable called Logo.
And that is equal to a styled.
And then here is where you will tell it
what type of component you want it to be.
So in our case,
we want it to be a styled.h1
and then we use back techs.
So don't use quotes, double quotes.
We wanna use back techs.
And this is what is referred
to as a tag template literal,
it's kind of like just running a function called styled.h1
then we'll go ahead and we'll import styles.
So start import styles from style components.
And then let's start writing our CSS inside of here.
So we'll say background is red.
Then what we do to apply the CSS, right?
This CSS has not been applied to anything just yet
is that we're going to go
to where we have used our h1
and we are gonna replace the h1
with our new component that we just made.
We'll call it Logo.
And then when I give it a save here
you'll see that this Logo
it's still being rendered as an h1
but it's got this like
sort of pseudo random or not pseudos,
it's totally random ID attached to it.
And then that is associated with whatever styles
we write on.
Now, actually let's change that up a little bit.
This Logo should encompass the entire link tag.
So let's make sure we do that.
Okay. So we've got our Logo
and then we have the Lincoln side of it
and that translates to an h1 tag
with an a inside of it.
Now, if I go in here and I select the link, like a
and I maybe say color is equal to white
you'll see that it turns white
and that doesn't turn the rest
of the links on the page white.
It only turns the links inside
of the style that h1 white.
And that's really, really nice
because now I don't have to go adding
like you still can add classes to things, I did
and we'll look at how to do that,
but I no longer have to think of a class name
a very specific class to add to this link
and oh! It accidentally applied to something else.
All of the styles
that I write inside of here,
first of all the top level ones
will be applied directly to the h1.
And then you can also have descendant selectors
inside of each of these style components.
So let's start writing a little bit of CSS on here.
We haven't done like a reset
or global styles or fonts or anything just yet.
That'll come in the next video,
but for now let's get some base styles
on this h1 going.
So we'll say font size is 4rem,
margin left 2rem, position relative, Z index 2
and by the way these completions
that I'm doing here again is z2.
And I just open it up and say,
expand abbreviation.
If you don't have a keyboard shortcut hooked up to that,
you can do so in your vs code settings,
I added control E to that one myself
so that it will expand.
And that's how I write CSS so quickly
as I use these Emmet expansion.
And then we want transform,
we'll say skew(-7deg), okay.
Text decoration none on that link.
Okay. Looking good.
Text transform uppercase
and padding is 0.5rem and 1REM.
Okay. So that's very basic CSS.
We're gonna make it look a lot better
than that in just a second,
but that's our basics for now
in terms of how do we create a style component.
Now, if this logo here was to be reused
in other portions of the website
then what I would do is
I would stick this in its own file
or its own component
and then import it as I needed it.
So we can take a look real quick at our components.
Our styles folder here has a list
of all these different styles
that I have provided for you.
So, some form styles.
So here we go,
const Forms = styled.form.
It's got the box shadow, the font size
and anywhere I want to apply these form styles
I simply just need to import it.
And in place of using a regular form tag
I can use a style component form tag
and it still takes all the regular attributes
and props that you're used to.
What else do we have here?
Pagination, we'll go through all these
as we need them
but just know that these are all reasonable styles
that we use throughout the website.
So some people say,
yeah, always put your styles in a separate file.
My sort of mantra or my way of approaching this
is I don't like to have too many files
because that gets confusing.
I get overwhelmed with all the files,
too many files for me.
So I'll just define the styles
in the component where I use it.
And then as I find either,
it's getting too big
in this one component
or I need to reuse this style
in six or seven or even two different places in the website
then I'll stick it in its own file, export it
and then import it
like a regular old component
into any other place
that I specifically need it.
Okay. So we got our styled h1
that's looking pretty good.
Let's make another one
for this header right here.
So what we'll do here
we wanna style this header.
So we'll say const Headerstyles
And sometimes I like to put
or usually I like to put header styles on the end
just so that it notes to me that it is a stalled component
and not a regular react component.
And that is this styled.header''
it's a header component, right?
And then we'll go in here
and let's just a background red again on that.
And just triple check that it's working
kind of one funny thing about this
is I'm going to show you how to put variables
like red variable in here,
but the the red that I've chosen
is actually just red.
So it's kind of nice.
You can just use the word red if you want.
But what we're going to do here
is where our place the open and close tag
with our header styles.
And now I give it a save.
It doesn't change the markup
but it does change which CSS is being applied to it.
So we don't want background red
but we do want to grab the bar inside of it.
That's why I've popped that class there.
It'll say border bottom.
There we go.
That one, 10px solid black,
and that black is actually going
to be a variable black.
So let's do this var(--black,black)
And what we'll do
is we'll set a CSS variable called black.
That's slightly different in just a bit,
but for now we'll just set it
to fall back to regular old black.
That's what the second argument of Varas.
If you've never seen this before,
this is part of CSS.
This is not a specific JavaScript thing.
Stock components does have the ability
to do like theme variables,
but with CSS variables,
I haven't found a necessary
or a need for that specific thing.
So I've just been doing that.
We'll display a grid on that
grid template columns.
GTC is going to be auto 1fr
justified content is space between aligned items center.
Is looking pretty good.
And then we'll grab the other one .sub-bar display grid.
We're not adding mobile styles right now.
We will come back to that.
So if it's looking a little funky on your phone
that's why grid template columns is 1fr auto border bottom.
Actually, let's just don't duplicate that one up here
Looking good, that should just be 1px not 10.
All right. So that's the very basics of our styles.
That's how we're going to be writing all
of the styles in this project.
I personally use this on,
I dunno, probably three or four different projects
I have in production.
And I am a big fan of it
because it doesn't get you too far away
from what regular CSS looks like
but it does still give you all of the benefits
of being able to scope it.
Last thing you're gonna notice is
that if you refresh the page here,
you're gonna see that it does this
like flicker where you get
like the unstyled page for just a second.
We're gonna look at how to fix that
with server-side rendering
in a coming video.